# Structure and admixture in the Grant's gazelle species complex
## Population Genetics 2017, University of Copenhagen
##### Author: (alphabetical order)
Natthawut Adulyanukosol, Adham Khaled, Emilia Rolander Langkjær, Povilas Matusevicius, Malou Fabricius Rægaard Storm, Tharsika Vimalasuntharam

## Course Summary:
Learning population genetics theory by applying the concepts directly. The task for the final project was to determine the population structure and admixture in a sample group of spacially disparate populations of gazelle subpecies in Kenya.

## Full Project Description:
"
The data set you will be given comes from 91 individuals of Grant’s gazelle (Nanger granti) and 4 individuals of Thomson’s gazelle (Eudorcas thomsonii). Grant’s gazelle is interesting because it was recently discovered by genetic methods that it probably consists of three species (N. granti, N. notate and N. petersii) rather than one. Some morphological evidence suggests that N . granti may be further subdivided into N. g. granti and N. g. robertsii. The puzzling thing is how strong genetic barriers have evolved without any obvious isolating mechanism, i.e. no landscape barriers to gene flow and no obvious ecological differentiation between the three species.
The data was generated by a technique called RAD sequencing (Restriction site Associated DNA sequencing, or RADseq. RADseq subsamples the genome with a restriction enzyme so that you end up with about 10 megabases of the genome sequenced in each individual. The data set you will be getting consists of PLINK files with SNP genotypes from the variable positions in these 10 megabases. PLINK is a standard SNP format that can be used in many other programs and can be easily converted to other file formats. Remember that the PLINK files represent the full data set, meaning all individuals from both species. For some analyses it will be obvious to subset the PLINK files by species or populations. It could be a good idea to filter the data when you do various analyses, particularly for missing data. I have pre-filtered the full data set removing sites with more than 20% missing data across individuals.
I will also provide a sample information sheet specifying the geographic origin of each sample and its official subspecies designation.
Problems to address
Although you are free to explore any aspect of the data you may like, some of the obvious questions to address are:
1) can you confirm the strong genetic differentiation within the Grant’s gazelles, and what are the most prominent groupings (or genetic clusters) within the species complex?
2) is there any indication of admixed populations, i.e. populations that could be hybrids between two of the Grant’s species? 
3) what is the level of genetic diversity in different populations, and does it differ between populations.
4) other possible directions: demographic history and technical/methodological issues.
"

## Directories:

- [original_data](./original_data): given SNP data
- [processed_data](./processed_data): processed from original_data with commands given in `scripts\`
- [additional_files](./additional_files): files created for some analyses
- [results](./results): output from analyses
- [scripts](./scripts): as markdown or script files


## Scripts

0. [Pre-processing](./scripts/0.pre-processing)
1. [PCA with PLINK](./scripts/1.PLINK_PCA_with_pruning.md)
2. [Genetic distance with adegenet](./scripts/2.Adegenet.Rmd)
3. [ADMIXTURE](./scripts/3.ADMIXTURE.md)
4. [TreeMix](./scripts/4.Treemix.md)
